namegen
-------

namegen is a simple utility to generate words from "languages" that
look reasonable. At its heart it has a set of phonemes represented by
letter combinations. For simplicity, some are flagged as vowels, some
as consonants (some could be both if you wanted, but none by default
are).

There are 2 major parts to namegen. Firstly, namegen can generate a
"language" and store it in a file for later use. This means that you
can generate more names with the same look later. The "language" is
generated like this:

A cluster file is read which tells namegen what combinations of
phonemes will look "reasonable" (more later). From here a small set of
vowels and consonants are selected to form the basic sounds of our new
language. You can pick how many these are on the command line (the
default is 5 vowels, 10 consonants). Then, a random process runs which
assigns a probability to each phoneme following another, so for
example how likely "th" is to be followed by "ea". These parameters
are then written into a language file.

The second part of namegen is to generate words (names, whatever) from
a language. You can specify how long (in phonemes) the names should
be. The default is for names to be between 2 and 6 phonemes
long. Namegen then traverses the language, honouring the rules it was
given about whether a cluster can appear medially, initially or
finally, creating words. It will then dump 150 words to the terminal.

Cluster file format
-------------------

The cluster file is the biggest factor affecting how well namegen
works. Each line is a cluster of letters representing a sound followed
by markers. For example, a line might be:

a	vif

The markers have the following meanings:

v - vowel: the cluster can be used as a vowel sound.
c - consonant: the cluster can be used as a consonant.
i - not-initial: the cluster cannot be used to start a word
m - not-medial: the cluster cannot be used in the middle of a word
f - not-final: the cluster cannot be used to end a word

There must be no spaces between the marker letters. There must be at
least one of [vc] so that the cluster can be used. The markers can be
separated from the cluster by any combination of whitespace. There is
only one cluster per line.

Invoking namegen
----------------

Invoke namegen without arguments to get a list of the available
command line arguments.
